Usage guide doc (#113)
neo4j/aura-cli: docs/usageGuide/A Guide To The New Aura CLI.md

## Configure Aura CLI with Aura API key

Configure the Aura CLI with the Aura API client ID and client secret you obtained earlier. The Aura CLI refers to these as _credentials_ and it is possible to have several sets of credentials and then choose which one to use.

1. At the command prompt,  enter the following, using your values for the items in CAPITALS:

    ```text
    aura-cli credential add --name YOUR\_LABEL --client-id YOUR\_CLIENT\_ID --client-secret YOUR\_CLIENT\_SECRET
    ```

2. To confirm the credentials are working, list your Aura instances.

    ```text
    aura-cli instance list --output table
    ```

# Working with AuraDB tenants

Aura CLI allows you to list the Aura Tenants you can access and then obtain the available AuraDB instance for each one. To list tenants  

```text
aura-cli tenant list
```

To get available AuraDB instances for an individual tenant, change TENANT-ID to the one you are interested in.  The output is substantial as all available AuraDB instance configurations are returned.  Consider filtering, for example with the use of the jq utility

```text
aura-cli tenant get TENANT-ID 
```

> If you have a single tenant or one that you use most frequently, it is recommended that you set it as the default to avoid repetition with other Aura CLI commands.   Do this with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a single tenant or one that you use most frequently, it is recommended that you set it as the default to avoid repetition with other Aura CLI commands.
Do this with:
```

```text
aura-cli config set default-tenant TENANT-ID 
```

# Managing AuraDB instances

The Aura CLI provides a full set of commands to manage the lifecycle of an AuraDB instance.

## Create

> Before you can create an AuraDB instance, you need to make sure that your desired configuration is available in a tenant where the AuraDB will reside.   Get these by using the Tenant command as mentioned previouslyIf you are using Aura Free, there is no need to do this as the configurations are fixed.  You can simply create an AuraDB instance with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can create an AuraDB instance, make sure that your desired configuration is available in a tenant where the AuraDB will reside.
Get these by using the tenant command from section [Working with AuraDB tenants](#working-with-auradb-tenants).
If you are using Aura Free, there is no need to do this as the configurations are fixed.
Create an AuraDB instance with:
```

double-check that the link is working

```text
aura-cli instance create --name YOUR\_INSTANCE\_NAME --type free-db --await 
```

> For other Aura Tiers, you must provide:-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For other Aura tiers, provide the following:
```

- Instance name
- Memory
- Cloud provider

> - Cloud Region

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cloud region
```

- Type

> The values for these are found with the usage of the aforementioned Tenant commands.  Once you have them, proceed with ( you can skip --tenant-id if you have set a default tenant)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the values for these by using the tenant commands.
Once you have them, proceed with:
```

a reference link or even an example for the tenant commands could be useful here :thinking:

```text
aura-cli instance create --name YOUR_INSTANCE_NAME --cloud-provider YOUR_CLOUD_PROVIDER --region CLOUD_REGION --memory MEMORY --type  AURA_INSTANCE_TYPE --tenant-id YOUR_TENANT_ID 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can skip `--tenant-id` if you have set a default tenant.

```

> The response will provide the connection details for the request AuraDB which will contain authentication details - the username and password - that are only shown once.  Make sure to record these safely and securely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response will provide the connection details for the request AuraDB which will contain authentication details, the username and password.
They are only shown once.
Make sure to record these safely and securely.
```

## List

> Viewing AuraDB instances is achieved by using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Viewing AuraDB instances is achieved by using:
```

```text
aura-cli instance list
```

> Use of the table format output option provides an improved viewing experience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the table format output option to improve readability:
```

```text
aura-cli instance list --output table 
```

> From the list, you can then use the ID for an AuraDB instance to get detailed information about it, including the URL to use for metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the list, you can then use the ID for an AuraDB instance to get detailed information about it, including the URL to use for metrics:
```

```text
aura-cli instance get YOUR_INSTANCE_ID
```

## Update

A deployed AuraDB instance can have its name, memory or both changed.

```text
aura-cli instance update YOUR_INSTANCE_ID --name NEW_NAME  --memory NEW_MEMORY
```

> You may omit --name, --memory as needed but at least one must be given

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may omit `--name` and `--memory` as needed but at least one must be present.
```

## Delete

> There’s no confirmation required when using the aura-cli for deletion and the operation starts immediately.  Use with caution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's no confirmation required when using the aura-cli for deletion and the operation starts immediately.
Use with caution:
```

```text
aura-cli instance delete YOUR_INSTANCE_ID 
```

> ## Pause /  Resume

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pause and resume
```

> A paused AuraDB instance incurs a lower cost per hour than when it is running. AuraDB instances when not in use and then Resuming when needed is an effective mechanism for cost control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A paused AuraDB instance incurs a lower cost per hour than when it is running.
Pausing AuraDB instances when they are not in use and resuming them when needed is an effective mechanism for cost control.
```

### Pause

```text
aura-cli instance pause YOUR_INSTANCE_ID
```

### Resume

```text
aura-cli instance resume YOUR_INSTANCE_ID 
```

## Snapshots

> A snapshot is a copy of an AuraDB instances data at a specific point in time.  It can then be restored with the ‘overwrite’ command of the Aura CLI.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A snapshot is a copy of an AuraDB instances data at a specific point in time.
It can then be restored with the `overwrite` command of the Aura CLI.  
```

### Create

> An instance must be running for a snapshot to be created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An instance must be running for a snapshot to be created:
```

```text
aura-cli instance snapshot create --instance-id YOUR_INSTANCE_ID
```

### List

All of the snapshots for an AuraDB instance are returned in the response.

```text
aura-cli instance snapshot list --instance-id YOUR_INSTANCE_ID
```

### Get

> To obtain the details for a single snapshot, use the Get command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To obtain the details for a single snapshot, use the `get` command:
```

assuming `get` is an actual command key word

```text

> aura-cli instance snapshot SNAPSHOT_ID --instance-id YOUR_INSTANCE_ID

Reviewer: there's no `get` in this command - is that correct?

```

## Overwrite

> This provides the ability to over write the content of one AuraDB instance with that from another whilst leaving the configuration alone.  However, the destination storage must be of sufficient size.  A snapshot provides the source material.   Overwrites can be used for restoration of an AuraDB instance databases, for duplication, moving between regions or any situation where you want to use the content of one AuraDB with another AuraDB.   A couple of cautions* Existing content of the destination AuraDB instance is completely replaced

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can overwrite the content of one AuraDB instance with the content of another while leaving the configuration as is.
However, the destination storage must be large enough.
Use a snapshot of the source AuraDB instance.
Overwrites can be used for restoration of an AuraDB instance databases, for duplication, moving between regions or any situation where you want to use the content of one AuraDB with another AuraDB.
Note that the content of the destination AuraDB instance is completely overwritten.
```

what is the required size of the destination storage?

> -  Like the Delete command of the Aura CLI, there is no confirmationProceed with caution. There are two sets of steps provided to illustrate the process of overwriting an existing AuraDB with the snapshot from another.   * Historical snapshot is for  choosing an existing, pior, snaphost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no confirmation for an overwrite.
Proceed with caution.

The steps to overwrite an existing AuraDB with the snapshot from another differs for a historical snapshot and the latest snapshot.
See the following sections.
```

> - Latest snapshot for when you want to take and use a new snapshotIn both cases, the destination AuraDB instance must be running.  If Lastest Snapshot steps are used, then the source AuraDB must also be running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both cases, the destination AuraDB instance must be running.
```

double check that this reflects the intended meaning

> ### Steps for  Historical snapshot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Steps for a historical snapshot
```

> 1. Obtain the ID of the AuraDB instance that has the desired snapshot you wish to use ( referred to as the Source Instance ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Obtain the ID of the AuraDB instance that has the desired snapshot you wish to use, referred to as the "source instance.
```

    ```text
    aura-cli instance list --output table  
    ```

2. Decide which of it’s snapshots to use and note the snapshot ID ( referred to as Source Snapshot )

    ```text
    aura-cli instance snapshot list --instance-id SOURCE_INSTANCE_ID  
    ```

3. Locate the destination AuraDB instance and obtain it’s ID ( referred to as the Destination Instance ).

    ```text
    aura-cli instance list --output table
    ```

> 4. Perform the overwrite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Perform the overwrite:
```

    ```text
    aura-cli instance overwrite DESTINATION_INSTANCE_ID --source-instance-id SOURCE_INSTANCE_ID  --source-snapshot-id SOURCE_SNAPSHOT_ID
    ```

> If you receive a response that looks like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you receive a response that looks like the following, select a different snapshot:
```

```text
Error: [Source snapshot SOURCE_SNAPSHOT_ID is not exportable ]
```

> You will need to select another snapshot to use.  It is not possible at this time for the Aura CLI to indicate which snapshots are exportable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not possible at this time for the Aura CLI to indicate which snapshots are exportable.
```

5. The destination AuraDB instance content will now be overwritten.  Depending on the size, this will take several minutes to complete.  You can check the status with

    ```text
    aura-cli instance get DESTINATION_INSTANCE_ID 
    ```

> When the status is “Running” the overwrite is completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the status is "Running" the overwrite is completed.
```

is it completed when it's still running? is this correct?

> ### Steps for  Latest snapshot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Steps for the latest snapshot
```

> 1. Locate the destination AuraDB instance and obtain it’s ID ( referred to as the Destination Instance ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Locate the destination AuraDB instance and obtain its ID, referred to as the destination instance:
```

    ```text
    aura-cli instance list --output table
    ```

> 2. Perform the overwrite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Perform the overwrite:
```

    ```text
    aura-cli instance overwrite DESTINATION_INSTANCE_ID --source-instance-id SOURCE_INSTANCE_ID
    ```

> 3. The destination AuraDB instance content will now be overwritten.  Depending on the size, this will take several minutes to complete.  You can check the status with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The destination AuraDB instance content will now be overwritten. Depending on the size, this will take several minutes to complete. You can check the status with:
```

    ```text
    aura-cli instance get DESTINATION_INSTANCE_ID 
    ```

When the status is “Running” the overwrite is completed.

> ## Customer Managed Keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Customer-managed keys
```

> Encryption of data at rest  is a standard feature of AuraDB and uses keys from a supported cloud key management service (KMS).   AuraDB Virtual Dedicated Cloud customers may wish to use their own encryption keys, a capability that is referred to as Customer Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK).   More information is available in Aura Documentation in the [Encryption](https://neo4j.com/docs/aura/classic/platform/security/encryption/) section  and you are advised to read this before continuing.  The Aura CLI allows management of this feature with these commands:  _CreateAllows Aura to use the Key defined in your Cloud Key Management System_ DeleteRemoves the permission for Aura to use a Key.  This makes all data encrypted with that key inaccessible._List List already defined CMEKs_ GetDetailed information about an individual CMEK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Encryption of data at REST is a standard feature of AuraDB and uses keys from a supported cloud key management service (KMS).
AuraDB Virtual Dedicated Cloud customers may wish to use their own encryption keys, a capability that is referred to as Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK).
More information is available in the Aura documentation for [Encryption](https://neo4j.com/docs/aura/classic/platform/security/encryption/).
We advise you to read this before continuing.
The Aura CLI allows management of this feature with these commands:

-  `create` - allows Aura to use the key defined in your Cloud Key Management System.
- `delete` - removes the permission for Aura to use a key. This makes all data encrypted with that key inaccessible.
- `list` - lists already defined CMEKs.
- `get` - detailed information about an individual CMEK.
```

### Create

> Before being able to use this command, you must have created your custom managed key in your cloud provides Key Management System ( KMS ) and configured its permissions correctly.  This is explained in the Neo4j AuraDB documentation in the [Encryption](https://neo4j.com/docs/aura/classic/platform/security/encryption/) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this command, you must have created your custom managed key in your cloud provider's Key Management System (KMS) and configured its permissions correctly.
This is explained in the Neo4j AuraDB documentation under [Encryption](https://neo4j.com/docs/aura/classic/platform/security/encryption/).
```

```text
aura-cli customer-managed-key create --tenant-id YOUR_TENANT_ID --type AURADB_TYPE --region CLOUD_REGION_OF_THE_AURADB_INSTANCE --name YOUR_CUSTOM_KEY_NAME  --key-id YOUR_CUSTOM_KEY_ARN --cloud-provider YOUR_CLOUD_PROVIDE_THAT_HAS_THE_CUSTOM_KEY
```

### Delete

> This command executes immediately resulting in lost of data access by any AuraDB who is using the CMEK.  Use with caution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command executes immediately, resulting in a loss of data access by any AuraDB which is using the CMEK.  Use with caution:
```

double check if this reflects the intended meaning

```text
aura-cli customer-managed-key delete YOUR\_AURA\_CMEK\_ID
```

### List

> Lists all configured CMEKs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List all configured CMEKs:
```

```text
aura-cli customer-managed-key list --tenant-id YOUR\_TENANT\_ID --output table
```

### Get

> Provides detailed information for a particular CMEK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide detailed information for a particular CMEK:
```

```text
aura-cli customer-managed-key get YOUR\_CMEK\_ID
```

# Configuration of Aura CLI

> Aura CLI has two commands for it’s own configuration _CredentalSets of Client IDs and Client Secrets that are used to authenticate with the Aura API that the Aura CLI uses to perform its own operations._ ConfigAddtional configuration options for the Aura CLI, such as turning Beta features on / off

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aura CLI has two commands for its own configuration:

 - `credential` - sets of client IDs and client secrets that are used to authenticate with the Aura API that the Aura CLI uses to perform its own operations.
 `config` - addtional configuration options for the Aura CLI, such as turning Beta features on or off.
```

## Credential

### Add

> Adds a set of credentials, client ID and client secret, that were obtained from the Aura Consle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds a set of credentials, client ID and client secret, that were obtained from the Aura Console:
```

```text
aura-cli credential add --name YOUR_LABEL --client-id YOUR_CLIENT_ID --client-secret YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET
```

### List

> Show all configured credentials that could be used by the Aura CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Show all configured credentials that can be used by the Aura CLI:
```

```text
aura-cli credential list
```

### Remove

> Removes a set of credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remove a set of credentials:
```

```text
aura-cli credential list --name NAME_TO_REMOVE
```

### Use

> Sets the default credentials for the Aura CLI to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the default credentials for the Aura CLI to use:
```

```text
aura-cli credential use --name NAME_TO_USE
```

## Config

> There are various configuration settings that can be controlled by this command.  For example, enabling beta features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are various configuration settings that can be controlled by this command, for example, enabling beta features.
```

### List

> Shows the current configuration setttings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Show the current configuration settings:
```

```text
aura-cli config list
```

### Get

> Show the value for a chosen setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Show the value of a chosen setting:
```

```text
aura-cli config set SETTING\_NAME
```

#### Set

> Set the value for a chosen setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the value for a chosen setting:
```

```text
aura-cli config set SETTING_NAME SETTING_VALUE
```

# Migrating to the new Aura CLI

> Aura CLI has graduated from a Neo4j Labs project to a full Neo4j product with all of the goodness it brings. The Neo4j Labs Aura CLI will continue to be available for installation for the foreseeable future, abet without any further development.  Customers are recommended to move to the new Aura CLI as soon as they are able to do so.   This KB outlines what you need to consider to move the new Aura CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aura CLI  has evolved from a Neo4j Labs to a proper Neo4j product.
The Neo4j Labs Aura CLI will continue to be available for installation for the foreseeable future, but without any further development.
Customers are recommended to move to the new Aura CLI as soon as they are able to do so.
This KB outlines what you need to consider to move the new Aura CLI.
```

what is a KB?

> ## Behaviour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Behavior
```

> - The name of the CLI is now aura-cli*Support for using environmental variables has been removed as they can be visible in process listings and can be accidentally logged making them vulnerable to exposure. For sensitive values e.g Aura API client id and client secret, a secrets manager is the recommended approach.* Neo4j Labs Aura CLI used plural names for commands; the new Aura CLI has singular naming for these* It is not possible to return the raw API response body with the new Aura CLI- Flags with the new Aura CLI do not have a short form and must be specified in full

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The name of the CLI is now "aura-cli".
- Support for using environmental variables has been removed as they can be visible in process listings and can be accidentally logged making them vulnerable to exposure. For sensitive values e.g. Aura API client ID and client secret, a secrets manager is recommended.
- Neo4j Labs Aura CLI used plural names for commands; the new Aura CLI has singular naming instead.
- It is not possible to return the raw API response body with the new Aura CLI
- Flags with the new Aura CLI do not have a short form and must be specified in full length.
```

## Feature set

> At the time of general availability, the new Aura CLI supports these new features compared to the previous Labs project* Customer managed keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the time of general availability, the new Aura CLI supports these new features compared to the previous Labs project:

- Customer-managed keys
```

> 
> - Beta of GraphQL Data APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Beta of GraphQL Data APIs
```

## Installation

> The new Aura CLI is downloaded from <https://github.com/neo4j/aura-cli/releases> and is available as a native binary for Windows, Linux and Mac platforms.   After downloading the relevant file and extracting the executable, the new Aura CLI can be run immediately; there are no dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the new Aura CLI from [https://github.com/neo4j/aura-cli/releases](https://github.com/neo4j/aura-cli/releases).
It is available as a native binary for Windows, Linux and Mac platforms.
After downloading the relevant file and extracting the executable, the new Aura CLI can be run immediately; there are no dependencies.
```

## Commands

| Labs Aura CLI                      | maps to  | New Aura CLI                                                       |
| --- | --- | ---
| config                             | →        | config                                                             |
| credentials                        | →        | credential                                                         |
| instances                          | →        | instance                                                           |
| snapshots                          | →        | instance -> snapshot                                               |
| tenants                            | →        | tenant                                                             |
| tenants -> get-metrics-integration | →        | instance get \<InstanceID> returns the URL for metrics integration |
|                                    |          | NEW - customer-managed-key                                         |
|                                    |          | NEW - data-api  ( beta )                                           |

> ## Command & flag changes with new Aura CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Command and flag changes with new Aura CLI
```

As far as was possible, the new Aura CLI commands and their flags are the same as the Labs based Aura CLI.  However, there are changes and these are described below

## Config

> It is not possible to remove a setting and its value although the value itself can be changed.  If deletion is wanted, then remove it from the JSON configuration file _Mac$HOME/Library/Preferences/neo4j/cli/config.json_ Windows%LOCALAPPDATA%\neo4j\cli\config.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not possible to remove a setting and its value although the value itself can be changed.
If deletion is wanted, then remove it from the JSON configuration file _Mac$HOME/Library/Preferences/neo4j/cli/config.json_ Windows%LOCALAPPDATA%\neo4j\cli\config.json
```
looks like two files - remove from both?

## Create a new AuraDB

> When creating an aura instance with the new Aura CLI , –memory is given as size appended with GB e.g 8GB.  Previously this was just a number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating an Aura instance with the new Aura CLI, the memory size is specified with an integer appended with "GB" e.g. "8GB". Previously, this was just the integer.
```

## Delete an AuraDB

> New Aura CLI does not prompt for confirmation when deleting an AuraDB and starts the operation immediately

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new Aura CLI does not prompt for confirmation when deleting an AuraDB and starts the operation immediately.
```

## Update an AuraDB

> Only the id can be used to identify the AuraDB to update. The same properties can be changed as previously - it’s name and memory size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only the ID can be used to identify the AuraDB to update.
The same properties can be changed as previously: its name and memory size.
```

> ## List AuraDBs
> 
> No changes
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Get AuraDB instance details

> Now includes the URL to obtain metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This now includes the URL to obtain metrics.
```

## Tenants

> No longer includes a flag to obtain metric integration information. This is now part of the details returned for an individual AuraDB.  See _Get AuraDB instance details_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command no longer includes a flag to obtain metric integration information.
It is also now part of the details returned for an individual AuraDB. 
See Get AuraDB instance details.
```

add a link here

## Snapshots

> Management of snapshots is now a sub-command of instance and allows for their creation, listing and obtaining their details.    Restoration of a snapshot is performed by using aura-cli instance overwrite command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Management of snapshots is now a sub-command of instance and allows for their creation, listing and obtaining their details.
Restoration of a snapshot is performed by using the aura-cli instance overwrite command.
```

is "instance" a command? what about "aura-cli instance overwrite"? (if so, use backticks to make it monospace mark-up

# Feedback

> Any feedback is reported using [GitHub issues](https://github.com/neo4j/aura-cli/issues).  This covers requested enhancements, defects that you may encounter and general feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Report feedback via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/neo4j/aura-cli/issues).
This covers requested enhancements, defects that you may encounter and general feedback.
```
